---
title: Mankind's First Conquest of Time and Space
date: 2026-01-23
tags: [history, communication, motivation]
---

The French Revolution started with overthrowing of the French Monarchy in 1789. This triggered the surrounding monarchies into an ideological war with the revolutionaries. France could be attacked anytime, from any side. If they were attacked, it would take anywhere from one week to two weeks for a messenger to reach Paris to inform the government. By the time they would take any action, they might already have lost the battle. On top of that, the government was not short of enemies in their own land. A chaotic situation with almost no chance for the revolutionary government to stand a chance. It was not a good idea to leave the situation on local commanders, a centralized decision making body with a coherent thought process was what they needed to stabilize the situation. Only if they could get all the news on time, and they could command in time they would have the chance to survive. They desperately needed a more quicker way to communicate!

Amidst the chaos, two brothers Claude Chappe and Ignace Chappe were setting up a pair of towers near Le Mans in western France, to test their design for optical telegraphy. They built two towers sixteen kilometers apart... one at Brulon, other at Parce-sur-Sarthe. At the top of each tower, they built wooden mechanical structure consisting of a post and rotating arms. Different configuration of arms meant different symbols or letters. Using telescope, they exchanged coded signals between the two points instantly. They were successful, they were ecstatic. But unaware villagers who saw those weird towers with moving arms were terrified. They assumed that those were signals for battle and so they destroyed the towers. The news reached the government in Paris. Chappe brothers would have expected their execution. But the government knew they were the ones whom they needed the most!

The government assigned them the task to set up a nationwide network of optical telegraphs. Soon entire nation got connected with the network. The news and commands travelled at lightening speeds throughout the nation. For the first time in history, a government used an engineered nationwide communication network for decisions making and military actions. They were able to tackle threats coming from all directions.. the enemies were shocked. Later on, Napoleon Bonaparte expanded the network up to 500 stations and used heavily for administration and military activities. Despite internal collapse and continuous external threats, France was standing again as the dominant power in Europe. 

Rest of the Europe couldn't just wait and watch. They understood the importance of fast communication. They followed on the footsteps of France ... by early 19th century, other nations had also setup their own networks. A new race of improving communication technology began. 